# LuaSafe

[LuaSafe](https://luaswap.org/#/Staking) is LuaSwap’s LUA-specific staking pool, where LUA holders can stake LUA to earn passive income.

LuaSafe income is generated through a portion of fees collected and distributed in the following way:

* 0.05% from swap fees across all pairs 
* 0.1% from withdrawal fees for LPs withdrawing liquidity from liquidity pools.
* [0.5%](https://snapshot.luaswap.org/#/luaswap/proposal/QmRheZC6Ap1u2myBkL3CAbKft6Lnw4oHvEDh1RDAuNK8iA) from users withdrawing their LUA staked in LuaSafe

All income generated by LuaSafe that is not denominated in LUA is used to automatically **market buy** LUA . After the **market buy** step all LuaSafe income will be in LUA and proportionately distributed added directly back intoto  the LuaSafe stakersing pool automatically . LuaSafe reward calculation and ‘distribution’ are programmed in the smart contract and can be called by anyone at any time.

* The core team will trigger distribution once a day when the situation allows, i.e. gas price is not too high and/or the fees collected reaches a certain significant amount, generally around noon Singapore time \(GMT+8\). Therefore, users do not need to pay any gas fee for the distribution, unless they choose to do it themselves.
* Anyone can distribute rewards by calling 2 functions directly to the smart contract LuaMaker A button will be provided on LuaSwap front end to allow any user to trigger these steps. Once triggered \(either by any user or by the team\), the 2 functions will perform  the followings:     1/ BURN collected LP tokens from withdrawal fees;    2/ BUY LUA with market price and SEND LUA earnings into the LuaSafe contract.

Users who stake LUA in LuaSafe will receive xLUA LP tokens which represent their proportion of LUA staked. xLUA LP tokens will collect all income generated by LuaSafe. Stakers will need to withdraw their xLUA LP tokens in order to receive their original LUA staked plus all LUA income earned through the fees collected in the LuaSafe staking pool. There is a flat fee of 0.5% levied for all withdrawals. Withdrawals can be done at any time.

We hope you love this update with the introduction of LuaSwap v1.0. There is much more planned in the coming weeks ahead for LuaSwap. Let us know what features you’d like added.

